README.md, before:

Monoprice Maker Ultimate 3D Printer MK11 Direct Drive Extruder / 24V Power System
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Notes on setup/configuration for this Wanhao Duplicator 6 clone.
Interestingly, it appears the Wanhao firmware is used in the Monoprice.
The manual also uses this name “Maker Select Pro Ultimate 3D” for the
printer.

-   Name: Monoprice Maker Ultimate 3D Printer, MK11 direct drive
    extruder / 24V power system.
-   Rear tag: Monoprice Maker Select Pro Ultimate 3D Printer
-   Part no: 15710
-   Firmware: DEV 3.01
-   Processor: Arduino Mega 2560 (as reported by System Info)

Status when unpacked:

-   Machine on: 21:06
-   Printing: 7:05
-   Material: 12m

Accessories
-----------

-   [1mm feeler gauge](https://www.mcmaster.com/2283a26)
-   [0.004" feeler gauge](https://www.mcmaster.com/20385a34)
-   [0.015" dia High-Speed M2 Tool Steel
    Rod](https://www.mcmaster.com/3009a297) for unclogging nozzle. Will
    compare effectiveness to sewing needle.

Filaments
---------

See [filaments.md](./filaments.md) for settings and experience with
different materials.

Printer Settings & Tuning
-------------------------

*Likely to move to its own page*

The build leveling function does not offer a way to cancel out once
started. There is no built-in feature to review the bed levelness.

Calibration
-----------

Anytime a piece of your printing environment changes, a recalibration of
your printer is needed. If a phyical component is changed, **always**
check the bed level. If the filament is changed, checking the
temperatures and extrusion number is well advised.

### Steps:

Easiest to start with PLA filament because it’s the most forgiving.

1.  Check build level using the printer’s LCD menu option
2.  &lt;&lt;Select a slicer program - add more details&gt;&gt;
3.  Create a slicer profile based on Monoprice’s info in [their
    manual](https://downloads.monoprice.com/files/manuals/15710_Manual_160622.pdf).

### Test Objects

*This section will be updated based on experiences w/using these tests*

Be sure to read the instructions for which settings to use.

-   [The Essential Calibration
    Set](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:5573)
-   [XY 20 mm Calibration Box](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:298812)
-   [All In One 3D Printer
    test](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:2656594) or the [micro sized
    version](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:2975429) or the [mini
    sized version](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:2806295)
-   [Benchy](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:763622)
-   [Bed Leveling Calibration Test Object
    (Parametric)](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:34558)
-   [Print Temperature Calibration
    Piece](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:35088)
-   [Deterministic Retraction
    Calibration](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:1065179)
-   [Part Fitting Calibration](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:342198)
-   [Test your 3D printer!
    v2](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:1019228) Have not tried
    [v3](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:1363023)

### Resources

These articles were used in calibrating this printer:

-   <a href="https://marlinfw.org/docs/configuration/configuration.html#sources-of-documentation" class="uri">https://marlinfw.org/docs/configuration/configuration.html#sources-of-documentation</a>
-   <a href="https://reprap.org/wiki/Triffid_Hunter%27s_Calibration_Guide" class="uri">https://reprap.org/wiki/Triffid_Hunter%27s_Calibration_Guide</a>
-   [3D Nation Guide](https://3dnation504795197.wordpress.com/guide/)
-   not used
    [Marlin3DprinterTool](https://github.com/cabbagecreek/Marlin3DprinterTool)

This info is unvetted:

-   <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aYVuz9ccZL8" class="uri">https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aYVuz9ccZL8</a>

Slicers & Firmware
------------------

The *slicer* is the software needed to turn a 3D model into G-code. The
printer’s *firmware* translates the G-code into control signals which
drive the printer’s different parts.

### Firmware

The Monoprice uses
[Marlin](https://marlinfw.org/docs/basics/introduction.html#what-is-marlin?).
Official support was added in ??build-get-reference??.

### Slicers

&lt;<fill-in>&gt;

G-code Details
--------------

There are variations in how each printer implements G-code. See
[RepRap](https://reprap.org/wiki/G-code) for the reference
specification. Refer to [this page](https://marlinfw.org/meta/gcode/)
for Marlin specifics.

Resources
---------

-   [Thingiverse
    collection](https://www.thingiverse.com/Printer3D_One/collections/wanhao-duplicator-6-d6-amp-monoprice-maker-ultimate-printed-parts-and-improvements)
    of various parts
-   [Monoprice
    manual](https://downloads.monoprice.com/files/manuals/15710_Manual_160622.pdf)
-   [Wanhao
    manual](http://www.wanhao3dprinter.com/xiazai/D6_User_Manual_REV_A.pdf).
    The Wanhao manual is easier to understand than the Monoprice one.

Do Dads
-------

-   [Filament spool clip](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:42528)
-   [Creative Studio’s Smartphone Photo
    Studio](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:1085472)

Commit message:

Added Cura settings image from Monoprice manual.

README.md, after:

Monoprice Maker Ultimate 3D Printer MK11 Direct Drive Extruder / 24V Power System
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Notes on setup/configuration for this Wanhao Duplicator 6 clone.
Interestingly, it appears the Wanhao firmware is used in the Monoprice.
The manual also uses this name “Maker Select Pro Ultimate 3D” for the
printer.

-   Name: Monoprice Maker Ultimate 3D Printer, MK11 direct drive
    extruder / 24V power system.
-   Rear tag: Monoprice Maker Select Pro Ultimate 3D Printer
-   Part no: 15710
-   Firmware: DEV 3.01
-   Processor: Arduino Mega 2560 (as reported by System Info)

Status when unpacked:

-   Machine on: 21:06
-   Printing: 7:05
-   Material: 12m

Accessories
-----------

-   [1mm feeler gauge](https://www.mcmaster.com/2283a26)
-   [0.004" feeler gauge](https://www.mcmaster.com/20385a34)
-   [0.015" dia High-Speed M2 Tool Steel
    Rod](https://www.mcmaster.com/3009a297) for unclogging nozzle. Will
    compare effectiveness to sewing needle.

Filaments
---------

See [filaments.md](./filaments.md) for settings and experience with
different materials.

Printer Settings & Tuning
-------------------------

*Likely to move to its own page*

The build leveling function does not offer a way to cancel out once
started. There is no built-in feature to review the bed levelness.

Calibration
-----------

Anytime a piece of your printing environment changes, a recalibration of
your printer is needed. If a phyical component is changed, **always**
check the bed level. If the filament is changed, checking the
temperatures and extrusion number is well advised.

### Steps:

Easiest to start with PLA filament because it’s the most forgiving.

1.  Check build level using the printer’s LCD menu option
2.  &lt;&lt;Select a slicer program - add more details&gt;&gt;
3.  Create a slicer profile based on Monoprice’s info
    ![settings](./images/slicer-settings.png).

### Test Objects

*This section will be updated based on experiences w/using these tests*

Be sure to read the instructions for which settings to use.

-   [The Essential Calibration
    Set](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:5573)
-   [XY 20 mm Calibration Box](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:298812)
-   [All In One 3D Printer
    test](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:2656594) or the [micro sized
    version](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:2975429) or the [mini
    sized version](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:2806295)
-   [Benchy](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:763622)
-   [Bed Leveling Calibration Test Object
    (Parametric)](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:34558)
-   [Print Temperature Calibration
    Piece](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:35088)
-   [Deterministic Retraction
    Calibration](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:1065179)
-   [Part Fitting Calibration](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:342198)
-   [Test your 3D printer!
    v2](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:1019228) Have not tried
    [v3](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:1363023)

### Resources

These articles were used in calibrating this printer:

-   <a href="https://marlinfw.org/docs/configuration/configuration.html#sources-of-documentation" class="uri">https://marlinfw.org/docs/configuration/configuration.html#sources-of-documentation</a>
-   <a href="https://reprap.org/wiki/Triffid_Hunter%27s_Calibration_Guide" class="uri">https://reprap.org/wiki/Triffid_Hunter%27s_Calibration_Guide</a>
-   [3D Nation Guide](https://3dnation504795197.wordpress.com/guide/)
-   not used
    [Marlin3DprinterTool](https://github.com/cabbagecreek/Marlin3DprinterTool)

This info is unvetted:

-   <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aYVuz9ccZL8" class="uri">https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aYVuz9ccZL8</a>

Slicers & Firmware
------------------

The *slicer* is the software needed to turn a 3D model into G-code. The
printer’s *firmware* translates the G-code into control signals which
drive the printer’s different parts.

### Firmware

The Monoprice uses
[Marlin](https://marlinfw.org/docs/basics/introduction.html#what-is-marlin?).
Official support was added in ??build-get-reference??.

### Slicers

&lt;<fill-in>&gt;

G-code Details
--------------

There are variations in how each printer implements G-code. See
[RepRap](https://reprap.org/wiki/G-code) for the reference
specification. Refer to [this page](https://marlinfw.org/meta/gcode/)
for Marlin specifics.

Resources
---------

-   [Thingiverse
    collection](https://www.thingiverse.com/Printer3D_One/collections/wanhao-duplicator-6-d6-amp-monoprice-maker-ultimate-printed-parts-and-improvements)
    of various parts
-   [Monoprice
    manual](https://downloads.monoprice.com/files/manuals/15710_Manual_160622.pdf)
-   [Wanhao
    manual](http://www.wanhao3dprinter.com/xiazai/D6_User_Manual_REV_A.pdf).
    The Wanhao manual is easier to understand than the Monoprice one.

Modifications and Settings
--------------------------

-   [cnorth’s
    settings](https://www.thingiverse.com/groups/wanhao-duplicator-6/forums/general/topic:17580)
-   <a href="https://othermod.com/turn-a-monoprice-maker-ultimate-or-wanhao-duplicator-6-into-an-ultimaker-2/" class="uri">https://othermod.com/turn-a-monoprice-maker-ultimate-or-wanhao-duplicator-6-into-an-ultimaker-2/</a>

Do Dads
-------

-   [Filament spool clip](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:42528)
-   [Creative Studio’s Smartphone Photo
    Studio](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:1085472)
